# Predicting-Electrical-Output-in-Power-Plants
Modeling/Predicting Electrical Output in Power Plants using R studio

Predicting full load power available from a power plant, based on assumed or forecasted
environmental or ambient conditions, has strong implications for improved operational efficiencies and profit from available megawatt hours. This paper conducts a secondary data analysis, utilizing operating data from a combined cycle power plant over a six year period. There are four main parameters (predictors) that influence power plant performance. These parameters include ambient temperature, atmospheric pressure, relative humidity, and steam turbine exhaust pressure (vacuum). The data is used to build both linear and non-linear regression models that predict hourly full load electrical power from the combined cycle power plant. Model performance is measured by mean absolute error (MAE), Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), and R squared. After analyzing the performance metrics on the test data set for each model used in this study, it was determined that Random Forest tuned by out-of-bag estimates yielded the best results. The final model used had a mtry value of 2 with an RMSE of 3.1709 and an R2 of .965 on the training data set. However, the performance metrics on the testing data sets had a slightly higher RMSE of 3.7197, a lower R2 of .952, and an MAE of 2.6460. The Random Forest model tuned by out-of-bag estimates slightly outperformed the most successful model in Tufekci’s 2014 study while using the same feature subset. Furthermore, the prediction accuracy for the optimal machine learning model is suitable enough to replace thermodynamic approaches to model a real world system. By doing so, the time and effort to model thermodynamic systems analytics can be greatly reduced. This data was compared to a 2014 study, which found the optimal model to be a bagging algorithm with REPTree (Tufekci, 2014). The optimal model for this study slightly outperformed the 2014 study.
